[Kotoko] I will stop at nothing
to win this battle.
And I will pour everything
I have into these lies.
The committee to conquer
Steel Lady Nanase
is now in session!
[Kuro grunt]
[opening music]
Does Steel Lady Nanase
truly exist?
Or is she a fictional being,
mere rumor who was created
by someone for
a specific reason?
Isn't she nothing more
than an urban legend?
[Kotoko] Saki.
Huh?
If you notice any significant
change with Kuro,
please let me know.
Yeah, all right.
He's defended himself against
Steel Lady Nanase
without getting killed so far.
[Kotoko] Until yesterday,
all the talk
about Steel Lady Nanase was
"Someone said they saw her,"
or "Someone said
they'd been attacked."
Always second-hand accounts.
But as of today, there's
been a significant change.
There was
a recent incident where
a detective named Terada
was killed by someone
believed to
be Steel Lady Nanase.
The place: Makurazaka City.
Time: the middle of the night.
Despite getting killed by
having his face smashed in,
there were no signs that
the detective resisted.
The cause of death
was announced
as a blow to his face.
And so, unless something
like Steel Lady Nanase
hit Terada in the face
with a steel beam,
it's hard to believe anyone
would die like that.
[anxious xxhale]
[gasp]
No.
That's just what the killer
wants you to believe.
That sort of thinking
is exactly why
the killer needed
Steel Lady Nanase.
In order to murder
Detective Terada,
the killer created
an urban legend and
called her
Steel Lady Nanase.
They made a ghost,
that has no way of existing
a suspect.
Now, let's see how many
will latch on.
Detective Terada was
very good at his job.
He always kept an eye
on changes within the city
he could almost sense when
a crime was going to happen,
and he wanted to take action
before the incident
got out of hand.
He was
an excellent detective.
That's what the killer tried
to take advantage of.
A small community on
the Internet was talking about
an urban legend
from Makurazaka City.
By taking advantage
of that legend,
they committed real crimes
and attempted
even more, one crime
one right after the other.
The killer dressed up
the way Steel Lady Nanase
had been perceived
and attacked people
night after night.
They made their steel beam
from either wood or Styrofoam,
and padded their chest to
help attract attention.
With black paint on part
of their face,
it would probably look
smashed in when seen at night.
Top it off with
a large hair bow.
Witnesses wouldn't have time
to think it through,
so they'd just assume her face
had been smashed in.
But is that even plausible?
Maybe not a hundred percent.
I mean, it is a lie, ya know.
It just needs to be
somewhat believable.
The killer waited
for statements like
"I was attacked by
Steel Lady Nanase" to spread,
not just as an online rumor,
but in real reports taken
to the police.
But the police didn't initially
take these stories seriously.
I'm sure many victims
had second thoughts
about filing a report.
But if incidents like that began
occurring all over the city,
wouldn't a good detective think
something was going on
and take action?
[Terada] Someone could be
acting like a monster
from an urban legend
as part of a much larger plot.
And with the work
they're putting in,
it can't be dismissed
as a mere prank.
They might actually
be planning some crime.
[Kotoko] That thought
crossed his mind,
so he began investigating
on his own.
This is the exact response
that the killer wanted.
If Detective Terada
started investigating
Steel Lady Nanase by himself,
they'd easily be able to
get the detective alone.
Thus, the killer was able
to create a time frame
where the accomplished
detective would be on his own.
[Anonymous]
Too long. Didn't read this.
What're you basing this on?
[Anon] But Steel Lady
Nanase is real!
[Anonymous] The only
logical explanation is that
it really was a ghost.
[Anon]
I say let's hear them out.
[Anonymous] I'm sure there's
gotta be some people here
who don't believe in ghosts.
The killer, at that point,
made contact with
the detective.
This is Terada.
[killer] Detective!
I was just attacked
by Steel Lady Nanase!
[gasp]
She ended up running off,
but she dropped
her weapon and bow.
I think they left
some footprints behind
that you may want
to check out,
But if I'm wrong, I don't
want to look like a fool,
so please come alone.
[Kotoko] That's could be all
it took for Detective Terada
to rush over to
the call on his own.
And the place
he was summoned to
ended up being
the scene of the crime,
the abandoned gas station.
If he'd been called
like that,
Detective Terada might've
really gone
to an abandoned gas station.
[Kotoko] In the time before
Detective Terada showed up,
the killer rigged a few things
at the abandoned gas station.
First, they suspended
a massive pendulum
from the roof,
by attaching a rope to
a hook on the edge
and secured a weight
at the bottom.
The weight had to be
heavy enough
and dense enough,
that it could crack
someone's cranium open
with a single swing.
The angle of its swing
needed to be precise,
and calculated for
the Detective's height,
which the killer had
previously researched.
Once they had all
that finished,
the killer would keep
the rope extended
take the end of the pendulum
that had the weight on it,
and set the weight
on the other hook
set up further along the roof.
However, this hook was attached
to a mechanism that
could undo it at any time,
by remote control.
Once that hook
was disengaged,
the weight would come flying
down at incredible speed.
This is an insane amount of work
just to kill one person.
The killer would have to
get Detective Terada
to stand in the spot they
had previously chosen.
But that wouldn't
be difficult.
The killer could have held
an item of interest
to Detective Terada.
If they waited with
that in hand
at the abandoned gas station,
Detective Terada would
undoubtedly stop his car
near the killer.
Detective! Here's the bow
that she dropped.
And those footprints
are just over there.
It's a bit dark,
so I'll go on ahead
and turn on some lights
so that you don't trip.
Wait here.
I'll be right back.
Sure.
[Kotoko] And that's probably
all it took to get
Detective Terada to stand
where the killer wanted him to.
At that moment, the killer used
the remote control,
releasing the hook
that held the weight.
The weight being held by
the rope would act
as a pendulum,
swinging across the dark,
abandoned gas station
to split his head
with one blow,
as Detective Terada unknowingly
stood in its path.
There were no residences
near the crime scene,
and cars rarely drove by,
so no one would've noticed
the rigged pendulum above.
The Detective wouldn't see
the pendulum set up to kill him
until it was already too late.
[gasp]
Yes, I see!
Now that better
explains the mystery.
This is how a strong,
and highly skilled detective,
could be dispatched so easily
without signs of a struggle.
There was no way
he could have predicted
that he'd be attacked
by a pendulum,
cracking his head open,
without a chance
to defend himself.
After murdering
Detective Terada,
the killer puts
their setup away.
They remove any trace
of being there
flee the scene.
All that's left after that
is to burn
the costume they used
as Steel Lady Nanase,
as well as the rigging
for the pendulum.
[Nameless] But the scene is
right next to the expressway.
There would be no telling
when a car could pass by.
Wouldn't that alone make
this whole convoluted setup
for a murder even riskier?
The killer researched
the traffic and
knew that very few cars pass by
during the chosen time period.
They experimented
with the setup
to determine where Terada
should stand.
They did their research,
likely months in advance,
to ensure this would work.
[Anon] The detective died
after being struck in the face.
Even if it was dark
and difficult to see,
would the killer really go
to the trouble of rigging
a pendulum that would
hit him in the face?
[Anonymous]
If they set all this up,
wouldn't it be better if
they had the detective stand
where the weight would be
able to strike him from behind?
If it was coming from
the front, he might see it
and try to dodger guard
his face with his hands.
Precisely.
The killer's pendulum setup
was originally designed so that
the weight would strike
the detective from behind,
where he wouldn't be able
to see it coming.
It's entirely possible
that Detective Terada
could sense that something
was coming toward him.
The man was
an outstanding detective.
He might've sensed that
the individual was trying
to kill him.
He could have
even heard the hook
being released by the remote.
That's why he instinctively
turned in that direction.
But the weight came speeding
through the darkness.
Too quickly to dodge.
Which explains why he didn't
try to protect himself.
And that's how Detective Terada
was killed
by massive trauma to the face
by a blunt weapon,
without a struggle.
You come up with this stuff
so fast.
[Anonym ous] So was the blow
to his face accidenta l,
or was it what
the killer intended?
It's hard to know,
one way or another.
For the killer to intentionally
have hit Detective Terada
in the face...
they drew his attention
- toward something.
- [killer] What's that!
If the killer looked in
a certain direction,
or if they'd pointed,
there's a good chance
that Terada would turn to
look the same way.
[Anon] But wouldn't
that method
involve significant risk?
Indeed. In this case,
there's a chance that Terada's
head would move out of the way.
That's one con, but the victim
dying with a blow
to the face is a pro
for the killer.
It's hard to say
which they decided
to go with in the end.
What is certain is that
the end result of it all
was exactly what
the killer had wanted.
[Anon] Well,
I understand the trick.
But you still
haven't explained
one very important thing.
[Anonymous] That's right.
Why'd the killer bother
going to all that trouble
in the first place?
[Nameless]
Not to mention,
using the urban legend of
Steel Lady Nanase itself
as a cover for murder sounds
like a total hassle.
[Anon] Even if the detective
was truly exceptional,
they could've tried
to poison him.
Rather than preparing
Steel Lady Nanase's costume
and a pendulum,
it's far easier to
just use some poison.
That's a valid point.
Why would they bother using
such a complicated trick?
This lie isn't
very persuasive.
The reason the person involved
went to so much trouble
is that if they succeeded
in killing him
they hoped to distance
themselves
from the investigation.
If a detective as
able-bodied as Terada
was killed out by being
struck in the face,
the proposed description
of the suspect
would probably be biased.
If they couldn't figure out
the trick,
they'd suspect a male
who had strength
equal or more to Terada's
and who was most likely
an acquaintance of his as well.
Which means the murderer
is the opposite.
Instead, they were weaker
than him,
and would never be able to
hit him with that much force.
Somebody it would seem unlikely
for Detective Terada
to be alone with in
the middle of the night.
If they had murdered him
with poison,
it would seem like
the most obvious method
for them to use to kill
a man of his stature.
Which means...
the killer is a woman!
If the killer was
indeed a woman,
it would seem unlikely
she'd meet a man
in the middle of the night
in such a secluded area,
unless they were dating.
It also seems unlikely that
she could kill him
with a blow to the face
before he could respond.
The Detective was
a judo athlete.
There's no way he'd be easily
killed by a woman.
- That would allow the killer
-[men discussing]
-to avoid investigation.
-I knew it. Yeah.
That's why they created a ghost
that would be popular,
like Steel Lady Nanase!
Why did the killer need to
create Steel Lady Nanase,
and why use such
a specific way
of killing Detective Terada?
If we can just determine why
they used a complicated murder
setup and fabricated a phantom
that should help us narrow down
the possible suspects.
The killer knew
Detective Terada's height,
and set the pendulum trap
accordingly.
The killer was able
to summon him
in the middle of the night
without it seeming suspicious.
The killer was able
to forecast
that the Detective would make
a move if he noticed
something strange was
going on in the city.
Our killer has to be someone
who fits all
these descriptions.
The killer...
is a female officer
working at the same department
as Detective Terada!
If they work at
the same department,
it'd be easy to find out
the victim's height,
as well as where
his head would be
in relation to something,
like a door.
If they worked in
the same department,
they'd also know
his reputation.
As an officer supposedly
attacked by a suspect,
they'd know how to
preserve evidence,
and no one would
suspect a thing
if they contacted a detective
they could rely on.
The description of the killer
that comes from
all these factors
can only be a female cop.
Her motive for doing it
is anyone's guess.
Perhaps the Terada had been
pursuing the killer
romantically,
and she was troubled by that.
Considering the trouble
it took to set up,
and that she went so far
as to kill him,
the motive to take his life
could have come from
an obsessive web of emotions.
That should cover everything
for my first claim.
[Kotoko] Steel Lady Nanase is
not a ghost.
She was created by
a female officer,
to misdirect people
so she could eliminate
a detective.
She's a means to a murder.
[Saki] Even without naming
the killer,
she was able to
convince everyone
that they could exist,
just by whittling down
the pool of suspects.
By creating such a detailed
description of the killer,
she basically narrowed down
who they could be.
The flow of the forum
has completely changed!
[gasp]
[wham]
[slam]
Kuro must be working to
track down a future
where everyone supports
Iwanaga's solution.
[sigh]
[Saki] Hey, hold on!
That suspect you described
is basically me!
Oh, so you noticed.
Did you assume I wouldn't?!
A female officer who worked
at the same police department,
and who Terada
had feelings for,
Even the chief could connect
those dots in one go!
You'll have to bear with me.
I can't just frame a random
female police officer.
I'm sure you'll agree.
Plus, this solution
won't last long.
Huh?
I'm afraid I don't agree.
[Nameless]
I have to question
if a lone female killer
could've set up
that pendulum trick
by herself
on the roof of
the gas station.
[Anon] Does it even
make sense
to create an urban legend,
then work to make it
so big that
it causes enough trouble
for a detective to take action?
[Anonymous] I can't see
the pendulum thing happening.
Wait, the flow changed again.
The solution may not
be realistic, but it's odd
that they'd change their minds
again so quickly.
Didn't the flow just change,
because of Kuro's ability?
Iwanaga, you said Rikka's
the one who's trying
to give Steel Lady Nanase
a form, right?
Yes.
And she has
the same ability as Kuro
that allows her to choose
the future, doesn't she?
Yes. As I said earlier.
[gasp]
But if then,
that's the case,
Rikka can also force
the future she wants,
just like Kuro...
Yes. And that's exactly why
the tides turned
so quickly again.
The idea that this is all
caused by a ghost is popular.
All she had to do was point out
a few flaws in our solution,
then die once.
And she could easily shift
the flow back in her favor.
It's entirely possible
that several of the posts
are written
by Rikka personally.
Ri...
[groan]
This wiki site, despite
a sudden influx of traffic
concurrent with
mass-posting by users,
has somehow managed not to
completely crash its server
and we haven't run
into any trolls.
That's not normal for
a net discussion, is it?
So that means Rikka is
probably choosing the future
with the fewest problems
while maintaining the site.
She may not be censoring
our posts, but it's clear
that she has
the home-field advantage.
Rikka surpasses
the laws of nature.
Which means the way to
solve this
hasn't changed at all.
In fact, because
Rikka got a head start
and had everyone believe
that Steel Lady Nanase exists,
we're at a disadvantage.
This assembly is unique.
After all,
the truth never existed here.
This is simple fiction.
[sigh]
Both Rikka and I know
that Steel Lady Nanase
didn't exist before.
But Rikka is still trying
to give that fiction a form.
Meanwhile,
Kuro and I are trying
to convince everyone
that what has manifested
in reality doesn't exist.
[gasp]
This is a committee
of dueling fictions!
[grunt]
[Kotok]
I will claim victory.
I've only used one solution
so far out of a total of four.
All I need is for a portion
of the assembly to believe it.
A portion?
I see.
The Internet is just
a swirling mass
of different viewpoints.
It's not always easy
for everyone
to believe in
a single truth.
In that case, you need to
have a variety of truths
enough to match up against
the variation of views.
We couldn't completely
dispel everyone's belief
in Steel Lady Nanase with
the pendulum solution,
but at least a few of them
should harbor some doubt now.
[Kuro grunt]
And she's going to repeat
this process three more times
to chip away at
Steel Lady Nanase's support.
Even if she doesn't gain
the majority,
she just has to make
a large enough number of them
believe that
Rikka's proposed bill
is not worth voting for.
That's why this strategy
has a chance.
She's incredible.
Using her knowledge
to wield a blade in one hand
while subtly injecting
poison with the other.
Who'd think that someone
who's chosen lies as weapons
could be so diabolical...?
[Nameless] No! Steel Lady
Nanase is totally a real ghost.
I've seen her!
She appeared in front of
my car out of nowhere!
This happened five days ago.
She came out of smoke,
went totally berserk
and started swinging
a huge steel beam at me!
[gasp]
[sudden fear]
That was a vengeful spirit.
No doubt about it.
I could've been
killed by her,
just like
that detective was!
I will be victorious.
All right,
let solution two commence!
[ending music]
We deploy the second and
third solutions
to defeat Steel Lady Nanase.
Though Rikka Sakuragawa
stands in our way.
Will we be able to
vanquish the ghost?
Next time,
"Dueling Fictions."